Let's not waste any time and install [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio/). You will be surprised how easy it is to create your own Android apps.

After installation, create an _Empty **Views** Activity_ application, select **Java**, setup an Emulator and press _play_... After just a couple of minutes our first Android application is up and running!

Known issues:

- If you cannot select "Java" in the project creation you probably selected the wrong template. Go back and select _Empty **Views** Activity_.

# Careful!

Don't create a _Empty Activity_, make sure you create an _Empty **Views** Activity_!

---
## The Application Layout

User interfaces in Android apps are called "layouts" and Android Studio comes with a graphical [layout editor](https://developer.android.com/studio/write/layout-editor). Under the hood these layouts are actually .xml files.

To develop attack apps it's enough to just know some basic concepts. Most important is that each element can be given a custom ID which can be referenced in the Java code:

```java
// update the text from code
TextView homeText = findViewById(R.id.home_text);
homeText.setText("Hello!");
```

As you can see the ID is not referenced by a string `"home_text"`, but as an identifier `R.id.home_text`. The resource reference class `R` is automatically generated based on various resources, including the IDs referenced in the layout .xml files.

---
## Handling Button Clicks

Besides updating text elements in the UI, we might also want to handle button clicks. Later we can use that to trigger various attacks.

To handle button events we need to reference the button `R.id.home_button` and add an `OnClickListener` handler:

```java
Button homeButton = findViewById(R.id.home_button);
homeButton.setOnClickListener(new View.OnClickListener() {
    @Override
    public void onClick(View v) {
        Log.v("HEXTREE", "Button has been clicked!");
    }
});
```

---
## The Official Development Documentation

In this video we are turn our app into a clicker app. Playing around like this will help us to gain experience with Android which will help us later when developing attacker apps.

We are also taking a small detour into the [official Android documentation](https://developer.android.com/) to learn about string resources.